#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with python 3.6
# To update, run:
#
#    pip-compile --output-file=requirements-production.txt
#
alembic==1.6.5
    # via flask-alembic
amqp==5.0.6
    # via kombu
arrow==1.1.1
    # via
    #   invenio-formatter
    #   invenio-records
    #   invenio-records-rest
attrs==21.2.0
    # via
    #   invenio-records-rest
    #   jsonschema
autosemver==0.5.5
    # via isbnid-fork
babel==2.9.1
    # via flask-babelex
backcall==0.2.0
    # via ipython
base32-lib==1.0.2
    # via invenio-pidstore
billiard==3.6.4.0
    # via celery
bleach==3.3.0
    # via
    #   invenio-formatter
    #   invenio-records-rest
    #   nbconvert
blinker==1.4
    # via
    #   flask-mail
    #   flask-principal
    #   invenio-base
    #   raven
cached-property==1.5.2
    # via kombu
cchardet==2.1.7
    # via invenio-previewer
celery==5.0.4
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   flask-celeryext
    #   invenio-celery
certifi==2021.5.30
    # via
    #   dulwich
    #   elasticsearch
    #   requests
cffi==1.14.5
    # via cryptography
chardet==4.0.0
    # via requests
click==7.1.2
    # via
    #   celery
    #   click-default-group
    #   click-didyoumean
    #   click-plugins
    #   click-repl
    #   flask
    #   flask-shell-ipython
click-default-group==1.2.2
    # via invenio-files-rest
click-didyoumean==0.0.3
    # via celery
click-plugins==1.1.1
    # via celery
click-repl==0.2.0
    # via celery
cryptography==3.4.7
    # via invenio-accounts
datacite==1.1.2
    # via invenio-records-rest
decorator==5.0.9
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   traitlets
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via nbconvert
dnspython==2.1.0
    # via email-validator
dulwich==0.19.16
    # via autosemver
elasticsearch==7.13.1
    # via
    #   elasticsearch-dsl
    #   invenio-search
elasticsearch-dsl==7.3.0
    # via invenio-search
email-validator==1.1.3
    # via invenio-accounts
entrypoints==0.3
    # via nbconvert
flask==1.1.4
    # via
    #   flask-alembic
    #   flask-babelex
    #   flask-breadcrumbs
    #   flask-caching
    #   flask-celeryext
    #   flask-collect
    #   flask-cors
    #   flask-kvsession-invenio
    #   flask-limiter
    #   flask-login
    #   flask-mail
    #   flask-menu
    #   flask-mistune
    #   flask-principal
    #   flask-security
    #   flask-shell-ipython
    #   flask-sqlalchemy
    #   flask-webpackext
    #   flask-wtf
    #   invenio-accounts
    #   invenio-assets
    #   invenio-base
    #   invenio-config
    #   invenio-formatter
    #   invenio-indexer
    #   invenio-records-files
    #   raven
flask-alembic==2.0.1
    # via invenio-db
flask-babelex==0.9.4
    # via
    #   flask-security
    #   invenio-formatter
    #   invenio-i18n
flask-breadcrumbs==0.5.1
    # via
    #   invenio-accounts
    #   invenio-theme
flask-caching==1.10.1
    # via invenio-cache
flask-celeryext==0.3.4
    # via
    #   invenio-app
    #   invenio-celery
    #   invenio-indexer
    #   invenio-logging
flask-collect==1.2.2
    # via invenio-assets
flask-cors==3.0.10
    # via invenio-rest
flask-kvsession-invenio==0.6.3
    # via invenio-accounts
flask-limiter==1.1.0
    # via invenio-app
flask-login==0.4.1
    # via
    #   flask-security
    #   invenio-accounts
    #   invenio-files-rest
flask-mail==0.9.1
    # via
    #   flask-security
    #   invenio-accounts
flask-markdown==0.3
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
flask-menu==0.7.2
    # via
    #   flask-breadcrumbs
    #   invenio-accounts
    #   invenio-theme
flask-mistune==0.1.1
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
flask-principal==0.4.0
    # via flask-security
flask-security==3.0.0
    # via invenio-accounts
flask-shell-ipython==0.4.1
    # via invenio-app
flask-sqlalchemy==2.4.4
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   flask-alembic
    #   invenio-db
flask-talisman==0.5.0
    # via invenio-app
flask-webpackext==1.0.2
    # via invenio-assets
flask-wtf==0.15.1
    # via
    #   flask-security
    #   invenio-accounts
    #   invenio-files-rest
fs==0.5.4
    # via
    #   invenio-files-rest
    #   xrootdpyfs
ftfy==4.4.3
    # via invenio-records-rest
future==0.18.2
    # via invenio-accounts
html5lib==1.1
    # via ftfy
idna==2.10
    # via
    #   email-validator
    #   requests
idutils==1.1.8
    # via datacite
importlib-metadata==4.6.0
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   kombu
    #   markdown
    #   pluggy
invenio-accounts==1.4.5
    # via invenio-files-rest
invenio-app==1.3.0
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
invenio-assets==1.2.6
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   invenio-previewer
    #   invenio-search-ui
    #   invenio-theme
invenio-base==1.2.4
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   invenio-accounts
    #   invenio-app
    #   invenio-assets
    #   invenio-cache
    #   invenio-celery
    #   invenio-db
    #   invenio-files-rest
    #   invenio-i18n
    #   invenio-jsonschemas
    #   invenio-logging
    #   invenio-pidstore
    #   invenio-previewer
    #   invenio-records
    #   invenio-records-rest
    #   invenio-records-ui
    #   invenio-rest
    #   invenio-search
    #   invenio-search-ui
    #   invenio-theme
invenio-cache==1.1.0
    # via invenio-app
invenio-celery==1.2.2
    # via
    #   invenio-accounts
    #   invenio-files-rest
    #   invenio-records
invenio-config==1.0.3
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   invenio-app
invenio-db[postgresql,versioning]==1.0.5
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
invenio-files-rest==1.2.0
    # via
    #   invenio-records-files
    #   invenio-xrootd
invenio-formatter==1.1.0
    # via invenio-previewer
invenio-i18n==1.3.0
    # via
    #   invenio-accounts
    #   invenio-pidstore
    #   invenio-previewer
    #   invenio-records
    #   invenio-records-rest
    #   invenio-records-ui
    #   invenio-search-ui
    #   invenio-theme
invenio-indexer==1.2.0
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   invenio-records-rest
invenio-jsonschemas==1.1.0
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
invenio-logging[sentry]==1.3.0
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
invenio-pidstore==1.2.1
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   invenio-indexer
    #   invenio-previewer
    #   invenio-records-rest
    #   invenio-records-ui
invenio-previewer==1.3.2
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
invenio-records==1.4.0a3
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   invenio-indexer
    #   invenio-records-files
    #   invenio-records-rest
    #   invenio-records-ui
invenio-records-files==1.2.1
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
invenio-records-rest[datacite]==1.7.2
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   invenio-records-files
invenio-records-ui==1.2.0
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   invenio-previewer
invenio-rest[cors]==1.2.1
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   invenio-accounts
    #   invenio-files-rest
    #   invenio-records-rest
invenio-search[elasticsearch7]==1.4.1
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
invenio-search-ui==2.0.1
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
invenio-theme==1.3.6
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   invenio-accounts
invenio-xrootd==1.0.0a6
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
ipython==7.16.3
    # via
    #   flask-shell-ipython
    #   invenio-previewer
ipython-genutils==0.2.0
    # via
    #   nbformat
    #   traitlets
isbnid-fork==0.5.2
    # via idutils
itsdangerous==1.1.0
    # via
    #   flask
    #   flask-kvsession-invenio
    #   flask-security
    #   flask-wtf
jedi==0.17.2
    # via ipython
jinja2==2.11.3
    # via
    #   flask
    #   flask-babelex
    #   invenio-formatter
    #   nbconvert
jsmin==2.2.2
    # via invenio-theme
jsonpatch==1.32
    # via invenio-records
jsonpointer==2.1
    # via jsonpatch
jsonref==0.2
    # via
    #   invenio-jsonschemas
    #   invenio-records
jsonresolver==0.3.1
    # via invenio-records
jsonschema==3.2.0
    # via
    #   datacite
    #   invenio-records
    #   nbformat
jupyter-client==6.1.12
    # via nbconvert
jupyter-core==4.7.1
    # via
    #   jupyter-client
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
kombu==5.1.0
    # via celery
limits==1.5.1
    # via flask-limiter
lxml==4.6.3
    # via datacite
mako==1.1.4
    # via alembic
markdown==3.3.4
    # via
    #   flask-markdown
    #   pymdown-extensions
    #   python-markdown-math
markupsafe==2.0.1
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   mako
    #   wtforms
marshmallow==3.12.1
    # via
    #   invenio-rest
    #   webargs
maxminddb==2.0.3
    # via maxminddb-geolite2
maxminddb-geolite2==2018.703
    # via invenio-accounts
mistune==0.8.4
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   flask-mistune
    #   invenio-previewer
    #   nbconvert
msgpack==1.0.2
    # via invenio-celery
nbconvert[execute]==5.6.1
    # via invenio-previewer
nbformat==5.1.3
    # via
    #   invenio-previewer
    #   nbconvert
node-semver==0.1.1
    # via
    #   invenio-assets
    #   pywebpack
packaging==20.9
    # via bleach
pandocfilters==1.4.3
    # via nbconvert
parso==0.7.1
    # via jedi
passlib==1.7.4
    # via
    #   flask-security
    #   invenio-accounts
pexpect==4.8.0
    # via ipython
pickleshare==0.7.5
    # via ipython
pluggy==0.13.1
    # via jsonresolver
prompt-toolkit==3.0.19
    # via
    #   click-repl
    #   ipython
psycopg2-binary==2.9.1
    # via invenio-db
ptyprocess==0.7.0
    # via pexpect
pycparser==2.20
    # via cffi
pygments==2.9.0
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   nbconvert
pyjwt==2.1.0
    # via invenio-accounts
pymdown-extensions==8.2
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
pynpm==0.1.2
    # via
    #   flask-webpackext
    #   pywebpack
pyparsing==2.4.7
    # via packaging
pyrsistent==0.17.3
    # via jsonschema
python-dateutil==2.8.1
    # via
    #   alembic
    #   arrow
    #   elasticsearch-dsl
    #   invenio-records-rest
    #   jupyter-client
python-editor==1.0.4
    # via alembic
python-markdown-math==0.8
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
python-slugify==5.0.2
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
pytz==2021.1
    # via
    #   babel
    #   celery
    #   invenio-indexer
pywebpack==1.2.0
    # via flask-webpackext
pyzmq==22.1.0
    # via jupyter-client
raven[flask]==6.10.0
    # via invenio-logging
redis==3.5.3
    # via
    #   invenio-accounts
    #   invenio-celery
requests==2.25.1
    # via datacite
simplejson==3.17.2
    # via invenio-files-rest
simplekv==0.14.1
    # via
    #   flask-kvsession-invenio
    #   invenio-accounts
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   base32-lib
    #   bleach
    #   click-repl
    #   elasticsearch-dsl
    #   flask-breadcrumbs
    #   flask-cors
    #   flask-kvsession-invenio
    #   flask-limiter
    #   flask-menu
    #   flask-talisman
    #   fs
    #   html5lib
    #   idutils
    #   invenio-app
    #   invenio-base
    #   jsonresolver
    #   jsonschema
    #   limits
    #   python-dateutil
    #   sqlalchemy-utils
    #   traitlets
speaklater==1.3
    # via flask-babelex
sqlalchemy==1.3.24
    # via
    #   alembic
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   flask-alembic
    #   flask-sqlalchemy
    #   invenio-db
    #   sqlalchemy-continuum
    #   sqlalchemy-utils
sqlalchemy-continuum==1.3.11
    # via invenio-db
sqlalchemy-utils==0.35.0
    # via
    #   invenio-db
    #   invenio-files-rest
    #   sqlalchemy-continuum
testpath==0.5.0
    # via nbconvert
text-unidecode==1.3
    # via python-slugify
tornado==5.1.1
    # via
    #   invenio-previewer
    #   jupyter-client
traitlets==4.3.3
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-core
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
typing-extensions==3.10.0.0
    # via
    #   arrow
    #   importlib-metadata
ua-parser==0.10.0
    # via invenio-accounts
uritools==3.0.2
    # via invenio-app
urllib3==1.26.18
    # via
    #   dulwich
    #   elasticsearch
    #   requests
uwsgi==2.0.21
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
uwsgitop==0.11
    # via cernopendata (setup.py)
vine==5.0.0
    # via
    #   amqp
    #   celery
    #   kombu
wcwidth==0.2.5
    # via
    #   ftfy
    #   prompt-toolkit
webargs==5.5.3
    # via invenio-rest
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   bleach
    #   html5lib
werkzeug==1.0.1
    # via
    #   flask
    #   flask-kvsession-invenio
    #   invenio-base
    #   jsonresolver
wtforms==2.3.3
    # via
    #   flask-wtf
    #   invenio-files-rest
xrootd==4.12.7
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   xrootdpyfs
xrootdpyfs==0.2.2
    # via
    #   cernopendata (setup.py)
    #   invenio-xrootd
zipp==3.4.1
    # via importlib-metadata

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# setuptools
