The JADE experiment was one of the experiments located at the PETRA e+e-
 storage ring at DESY in Hamburg, Germany.  Its scientific
programme aimed at answering a series of fundamental questions such as:

*   What is the dynamics of the strong interaction that binds quarks inside ordinary matter ?
You can find more information on the JADE detector and physics on the [JADE website](https://wwwjade.mpp.mpg.de/)

## About JADE History
The JADE experiment was one of the experiments located at the PETRA e+e-
 storage ring at DESY in Hamburg, Germany. The experiment took data
 between 1979 and 1986 in the center-of-mass range between 14 and 45GeV.
 Since 1997 a group at the University of Aachen, now located at the MPI
 in Munich, started to re-analyze the data taken during that time period.
 New theoretical calculations developed during and after the running of
 the LEP experiments are applied to the data taken between 14 and 45GeV.
 This allows a unique access to data at that energy range.

## About JADE Data

The following are provided through this portal:

*   Primary datasets

    *   The available [primary JADE datasets](FIXME) contain a all
     events recorded by JADE. The data format is the BOS
    (event summary data) format generated by the JADE raw data
    reconstruction software.

*   Software tools

    *   A downloadable [Virtual Machine (VM)](/docs/jade-virtual-machine)
    image with the JADE software environment which allows to access the above datasets
    *   An [analysis example chain](/docs/jade-getting-started) running
    in the VM, reading a primary dataset using the
    [JADE analysis framework](/docs/jade-virtual-machine).
    The sources for the example can be adapted and recompiled by the
    user to look at different features of JADE data. This exercise
    requires a minimal understanding of the usage of the analysis framework.

## Primary Datasets formats

Data in the primary datasets are in a format known as
BOS (Event Summary Data), produce by the
JADE [reconstruction procedure](/docs/jade-virtual-machine)

*   The BOS contains lists of reconstructed
tracks/particles and global event properties. BOS files contain the
information that is needed for the analysis:

    *   All the high-level physics objects (such as muons, electrons, etc.);
    *   Tracks with associated hits, calorimetric clusters with associated
     hits, vertices;
    *   Information about event selection (triggers), data needed for
    further selection and identification criteria for the physics objects.
*   An BOS file is not the final event interpretation with a simple list
of particles, but just its best current understanding that takes into
account several parameters

## Disclaimer

*   The open data are released under the [Creative Commons CC0 waiver](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
*   Neither JADE nor CERN endorse any works, scientific or otherwise, produced using these data.
*   All released data samples will have a unique DOI that you are requested to cite in any applications or publications.
*   Despite being processed, the high-level primary datasets remain complex and selection criteria need to be applied in order to analyse them,
*   requiring some understanding of particle physics and detector functioning. The data cannot be viewed in simple data tables for spreadsheet-based analyses.
